How's it going everyone?
I'm Scott Moss welcome
to Intro to Next.js v2.
Very excited to be back here
once again with the folks
our frontend masters here in Minnesota.
Even though I said I'll probably never
come when it's snowing again, but
[LAUGH] here I am and
honestly this time it's not that bad.
I guess that means I've been here long
enough to where I kind of just warmed
up to it.
I'm kinda used to it at this point.
And I dunno,
the snow was a really good break from it
just being dry all the time in California.
So yeah, Intro Next.js v2,
this course is, I mean,
it was always gonna happen, but
I think a really big push for
this course was the recent announcement of
Next,js 13, which was a breaking change.
You know, maybe it's really just a
completely different way of thinking about
how to make applications in general
not just upgrades to a framework, but
just like upgrades to a mental model.
Really.
There's a lot of changes
in this framework.
So I spent a lot of time building in it,
talking with the folks at Versailles,
talking with the folks working on Next.js,
talking with the folks on the React team.
Just trying to get a good sense of where
the future is for some of this technology.
So I baked all that in, and I'm bringing
it to you all in the form of this course.
So if you don't have any experience
with Next.js, that's totally fine.
That's what this course is for.
All I ask is that you have some
experience with JavaScript and
hopefully you have some experience with a
framework, typically something like React,
because Next.js is based off of
React if you didn't know, but
we'll cover a lot of that stuff.
Okay, so what you can do is you
can go to this URL here if you
want to kind of look at the notes and
follow along.
The notes are mostly a guide for me to
keep me from rambling up here all day and
talking about stuff I shouldn't be talking
about because it might be too advanced for
this course or stuff like that,
because I can just talk all day.
So they're mostly for me.
But if you feel the need, totally look
at this stuff and you can follow along.
But we'll mostly be spending our time in
the editor today, walking through some
examples, trying to build something out of
all the lessons that I'm walking through,
the new techniques and practices and
APIs that we're going to be talking about.
But yeah, if you want that,
you can follow along here.
I'll be having it on screen, so
you can follow along with me if you want.
So I guess a little more about me,
if you don't know me.
I've been an engineer for
over a decade now and recently.
And since then, I've done a lot of things,
I've started companies,
done open source, things like that.
And now transitioning over
to being an investor.
I'm a VC now, but
I still write code all the time for fun.
So it's no longer my day job.
But as you can tell,
I just can't get away from this stuff.
It's just really cool.
And a lot of my stuff that I do at my job
is evaluating technical pitches anyway,
so I still see code every day it's just
I'm not always the one writing it,
but this stuff is very interesting to me,
so I like to stay up to date.
But yeah, like I was saying, this next day
ask course, I'm super excited about it.
I was telling Mark that there's so
many new things in Next.js 13 and
React 18 that I've just like,
I wouldn't say struggling, but I was just
trying to make sure I was finding a way
to Introduced the topics in a format that
would be digestible, for this course
while not getting into the weeds of
like production quality optimizations
that can be saved for something else.
So, if you have questions,
if you feel like I'm not going deep enough
on certain things asked those questions.
And it's probably because I feel like it
was out of scope of this intro course.
So, and also some of these
patterns are still developing.
Next.js 13 is still somewhat in beta,
it's still relatively new.
So a lot of opinions and
things are still being fleshed out.
But we could talk about those things and
have discussions about them.
>> What would you say as far as people
taking version one of the course if
they're using prior to Next.js 13,
if they're using Next.js 12 or
earlier, should they take
the first version of the course?
>> If you are using Next.js 12,
you will probably get better benefit
out early version of the course.
There's a lot of crossover
that we'll be covering here.
But if you want to talk about
specifically just what's Next.js 12,
then I think the first
course might be better.
If you wanna go to 13 and beyond then
you probably wanna watch this course.
Yeah, that's how different
those two versions are.
They're completely different.
And you'll see why.
But like I said, there is some crossover
when it comes to how Next.js handles its
conventions and configurations.
But there's some things that they can't
help because React itself was updated,
so, okay.
Yeah.
So some of the things we'll be covered.
Covering creating pages using the app and
pages directory.
If you've used versions of Next.js
before 13, there was no app directory.
There was only pages directory.
But now there's an app directory.
And it kind of works the same,
but it does not work the same.
It is completely different,
but also kind of the same.
You'll see what I'm talking about.
That's where all the magic is.
But we'll be talking about that and
the differences between them.
Server and client components, how to use
those together, this is one of the biggest
changes introduced to React is this whole
mental model and concept of server first
routing server components which is way
different than server side rendering so
if you ever heard of SSR You
might be thinking like, yeah,
I know what server side rendering is.
This is not that.
This is something completely
different than server side rendering.
And we'll talk about that,
but we've gone over it.
Fetching data on the server and
the client side,
which Next.js has had support for
in the past,
using things like get static props and get
server side props and things like that.
Okay, that's gone.
Data on the server side and
then the client side is as you'll
see it's kind of mostly the same.
We'll talk about configuration.
So how do we get the best out of Next.js?
Up to a point we probably won't get into
like how to optimize for production and
speed things up and stuff like that.
We'll figure out how to at least
tweak some things if we need to.
Styling, that's important.
We can't make apps if
they don't look good.
We've got to make them look just like
those pixels those designers give us.
So we'll talk about all the different
ways you can style your components,
which there are some caveats
when using server components and
trying to think in a server-first mindset.
And how CSS interacts on the server
when there is no DOM and all that stuff.
So there's a lot of things you have to
think about and then many, many more or
whatever you guys ask me.
So pretty much.
Any questions on that stuff?
Yeah, Mark?
>> Will you potentially be looking at
edge functions versus API routes at all?
That's a great question.
So I do not plan on covering edge
functions and API routes, but
I can definitely talk about it
because there really isn't that big of
a difference between the two.
So if we get into when we get
into the API functions and stuff,
I'll talk about the difference
between those two.
But for the most part, there really
isn't a big difference on the runtime
the different types of runtimes that
Next.js allows you to have because
the code is mostly the same unless
you're doing some crazy stuff so